CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Pika Backup

Contributions of all kind and with all levels of experience are very welcome. Please note that the [GNOME Code of Conduct](https://wiki.gnome.org/Foundation/CodeOfConduct) applies to this project.

The translation of Pika Backup is managed by the [GNOME Translation Project](https://wiki.gnome.org/TranslationProject) and the respective [language teams](https://l10n.gnome.org/teams/). The translation status is available on the [module page](https://l10n.gnome.org/module/pika-backup/).

## Resources

- [Translation status](https://l10n.gnome.org/module/pika-backup/)
- [Code documentation](https://world.pages.gitlab.gnome.org/pika-backup/code-doc/pika_backup/)

## Start using GNOME Builder

You can clone the project using GNOME Builder.

![builder_setup](/uploads/f5b239c191c15922a615a28a55110b1c/builder_setup.png)

GNOME Builder will suggest to install the missing dependencies. After doing so, you should be ready to build and start Pika Backup via the "Run" button or by pressing *Ctrl+F5*.

## Peculiarities

### GtkBuilder files

Binding to objects defined in `.ui`-files are auto generated via

```sh
$ ./build-aux/generate-ui-bindings.py
```

You have to execute this script after adding, changing or removing ids from `.ui`-files. The bindings can be found in `src/ui/builder.rs`. Using only those bindings allows to catch all errors in accessing builder elements on compile time.

### Flatpak manifests

The `org.gnome.World.PikaBackup.Devel.json` manifest is generated via `generate-manifest.sh`. Please adjust the `org.gnome.World.PikaBackup.yml` manifest and generate the devel version from it.

Outside of GNOME Builder the flatpak manifests depend on the generated `generated-sources.json` file. After changes of the `Cargo.lock` file this file must also be updated via executing `generate-manifest.sh`.

## Debugging

The log level can be adjusted by setting the `G_MESSAGES_DEBUG` to `all`. For example

```sh
$ G_MESSAGES_DEBUG=all cargo run
```

See ["Running GLib Applications"](https://developer.gnome.org/glib/stable/glib-running.html) for more options.

## Building manually

Building via [cargo](https://rustup.rs/) not involving meson is supported.

```
$ apt install libgtk-3-dev borg-backup
$ cargo test
$ cargo run
```

Using meson also installs a `.desktop`-file etc.

```
$ meson --sysconfdir /etc builddir
$ ninja install -C builddir
```

Commit message:

help: Add to main menu and add shortcut

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Pika Backup

Contributions of all kind and with all levels of experience are very welcome. Please note that the [GNOME Code of Conduct](https://wiki.gnome.org/Foundation/CodeOfConduct) applies to this project.

The translation of Pika Backup is managed by the [GNOME Translation Project](https://wiki.gnome.org/TranslationProject) and the respective [language teams](https://l10n.gnome.org/teams/). The translation status is available on the [module page](https://l10n.gnome.org/module/pika-backup/).

## Resources

- [Translation status](https://l10n.gnome.org/module/pika-backup/)
- [Code documentation](https://world.pages.gitlab.gnome.org/pika-backup/code-doc/pika_backup/)

## Start using GNOME Builder

You can clone the project using GNOME Builder.

![builder_setup](/uploads/f5b239c191c15922a615a28a55110b1c/builder_setup.png)

GNOME Builder will suggest to install the missing dependencies. After doing so, you should be ready to build and start Pika Backup via the "Run" button or by pressing *Ctrl+F5*.

## Peculiarities

### Help format

The help pages are currently written in [ducktype](http://projectmallard.org/ducktype/1.0/index.html). The files are stored in `help/C/duck` and the corresponding `.page`-files can be generated via `make -C help/C/`. Afterwards, you can preview the generated help pages via `yelp help/C/index.page`. The generated `.page`-files have to be committed to the repository as well. The `ducktype` program required for running `make` is probably packaged in you distro and is also [availabe on GitHub](https://github.com/projectmallard/mallard-ducktype).

### GtkBuilder files

Binding to objects defined in `.ui`-files are auto generated via

```sh
$ ./build-aux/generate-ui-bindings.py
```

You have to execute this script after adding, changing or removing ids from `.ui`-files. The bindings can be found in `src/ui/builder.rs`. Using only those bindings allows to catch all errors in accessing builder elements on compile time.

### Flatpak manifests

The `org.gnome.World.PikaBackup.Devel.json` manifest is generated via `generate-manifest.sh`. Please adjust the `org.gnome.World.PikaBackup.yml` manifest and generate the devel version from it.

Outside of GNOME Builder the flatpak manifests depend on the generated `generated-sources.json` file. After changes of the `Cargo.lock` file this file must also be updated via executing `generate-manifest.sh`.

## Debugging

The log level can be adjusted by setting the `G_MESSAGES_DEBUG` to `all`. For example

```sh
$ G_MESSAGES_DEBUG=all cargo run
```

See ["Running GLib Applications"](https://developer.gnome.org/glib/stable/glib-running.html) for more options.

## Building manually

Building via [cargo](https://rustup.rs/) not involving meson is supported.

```
$ apt install libgtk-3-dev borg-backup
$ cargo test
$ cargo run
```

Using meson also installs a `.desktop`-file etc.

```
$ meson --sysconfdir /etc builddir
$ ninja install -C builddir
```
